MTM-49410 As a customer I need a MQTT Connect user documentation guide (#1405)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/device-integration/mqtt-connect-bundle/overview.md

---
weight: 10
layout: redirect
title: Overview
---

MQTT Connect is the new MQTT endpoint implementation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} which provides the following benefits:

* Supports publishing and subscribing arbitrary payloads on any MQTT topic. The existing topics that are defined by {{< product-c8y-iot >}} are restricted.
* Support for subscribing to the data stream from MQTT Connect and mapping it to {{< product-c8y-iot >}} compatible one or routing them to a different service.
* Multi-tenancy support: A single endpoint serves multiple tenants.
* Minimum traffic overhead.
* Full horizontal scalability.

This section does not describe the basics of MQTT communication. If you are unfamiliar with MQTT, we recommend 
you to consult one of the numerous introductions in the Internet. Some references can be found on the [MQTT website](https://mqtt.org/mqtt-specification/).

### Requirements {#mqtt-connect-requirements}

> MQTT Connect is in final stages of development now, available as a private preview only. Please reach out to [product support](/additional-resources/contacting-support/) if interested.

Author: Follow up ticket: https://cumulocity.atlassian.net/browse/MTM-56141

---
weight: 10
layout: redirect

> title: Overview

Reviewer: I would rephrase it like so:

**Replace first two points:**
- Supports publishing and subscribing arbitrary payloads on any MQTT topic. The existing topics that are defined by Cumulocity IoT are restricted. 

- Support for subscribing to the data stream from MQTT Connect and mapping them to Cumulocity IoT compatible one or routing them to a service of your choice.

-------------

Clarifications:

1> Multi-tenancy support - I would not mention this. It's assumed our platform does it.
2> Minimum traffic overhead - what does that mean?

Author: 1> Multi-tenancy support - I would not mention this. It's assumed our platform does it.
This is just a C&P from old MQTT doc, I guess it doesn't really hurt us if we leave it here.
2> Minimum traffic overhead - what does that mean?
This is rather about MQTT protocol in general which was designed to consume as little traffic as possible.

Other points changed according to the suggestion.

---

> MQTT Connect is the new MQTT endpoint implementation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} which provides the following benefits:

Reviewer 2: .. though something has to distinguish it from standard MQTT. So alternative text is not obvious.

> MQTT Connect is the new MQTT endpoint implementation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} which provides the following benefits:

Reviewer 2: Something like '... will replace the existing MQTT implementation in a future release and provide richer functionality. It is currently only available under private preview. Speak to you or sales person/agent ...'

> MQTT Connect is the new MQTT endpoint implementation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} which provides the following benefits:

Author: Agree, but not really sure how to address this. In the `Requirements` chapter we already have "MQTT Connect is in final stages of development now, available as a private preview only." so your suggestion will be a duplicate of this.

Just change the "new" to "substitute"/"alternative"?

> MQTT Connect is the new MQTT endpoint implementation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} which provides the following benefits:

Reviewer 2: Not sure what is best either. Hopefully others might chip in with better suggestions!

* Generic topic and payload structure - beside of few {{< product-c8y-iot >}} restricted topics you are free to define your own topic structure and push payload in any format.

> * Cooperates with Messaging Service allowing to map any MQTT binary format into {{< product-c8y-iot >}} compatible one.

Reviewer 2: 'The Messaging Service' seems like implementation detail. Also maybe we should state the the customer must provide the mapping functionality in a microservice' (or similar). I might be incorrect about the specifics of that last bit.

Reviewer 2: Having gone though the rest of the PR now, maybe the messaging-service is a very apparent detail. However this line isn't right. The messaging-service helps provide some flexibility and reliability to MQTT Connect, but it does not provide the mapping capability. 

Maybe we want to say '_The message-service provides flexible topic based message routing, allowing addition and removal of custom message processors at at time_' (even for transitory purposes). And that it provides reliable MQTT ingress/egress.

The mapping comes into play from that flexibility, but maybe that should be on another bullet point.

Reviewer 2: This is totally outdated by subsequent changes - resolving

* Multi-tenancy support: A single endpoint serves multiple tenants.

> * Minimum traffic overhead.

Reviewer 2: Regarding 'Minimum traffic overhead', do you mean this reduces the ingress traffic load on Cumulocity core? Maybe this is implementation detail also (but maybe useful for those that are considering whether to use it or not)

Author: This is rather about MQTT protocol in general which was designed to consume as little traffic as possible.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should mention it at all. It's like saying our 'new' MQTT implementation works over TCP. There's nothing new or specific to remark on as this a quality of MQTT in general.

* Full bi-directional communication.
* Full horizontal scalability.

This section does not describe the basics of MQTT communication. If you are unfamiliar with MQTT, we recommend 
you to consult one of the numerous introductions in the Internet. Some references can be found on the [MQTT website](https://mqtt.org/mqtt-specification/).

### Requirements {#mqtt-connect-requirements}

> MQTT Connect is currently in private preview stage with very limited access, please reach out [product support](/additional-resources/contacting-support/) if you want to give it a try.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MQTT Connect is in final stages of development now and will be available as a private preview in 10.18. Please reach out [product support](/additional-resources/contacting-support/) if interested.
```

Author: Let's not mention version as we are not 100% sure :)
Changed a little bit to remove this version info.

> ### Architecture {#mqtt-connect-architecture}

Author: Yeah, but this is a more general one, on my diagrams I would like to show how the message flows for different topics. I will try to reuse the arrow approach but anyway it won't be so simple ;)

> MQTT Connect works together with the Messaging Service to provide as generic solution as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MQTT Connect works together with the Messaging Service to provide as generic a solution as possible.
```

> Below diagram illustrates how the message flows, starting from the device, through the Messaging Service, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The diagram below illustrates how the message flows, starting from the device, through the Messaging Service, 
```

> Below diagram illustrates how the message flows, starting from the device, through the Messaging Service, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The diagram below illustrates the message flows, starting from the device, through the Messaging Service, 
```

> Below diagram illustrates how the message flows, starting from the device, through the Messaging Service, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The diagram below illustrates how a message flows, starting from the device, through the Messaging Service, 
```

then to the microservice where it is converted to the final {{< product-c8y-iot >}} REST request.

![MQTT Connect Send](/images/mqtt-connect/mqtt-connect-send.svg)

Similarly, messages can be sent to devices, as shown in the diagram below.

![MQTT Connect Push](/images/mqtt-connect/mqtt-connect-push.svg)

> All MQTT messages coming to the MQTT Connect are forwarded to the Messaging Service, where they are persisted and waiting to be consumed.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that this persistence gives us reliable ingress?

> Usually that's the place where your custom microservice comes into action. Knowing the topic and payload structure

Reviewer 2: 'Usually' might imply there are (unusual) alternatives here. Can this, or do we intend that this, will be able to be done by some other means (that is, can this be a something other than a microservice that does this)?

> you will be able to easily write your own microservice which with the help of [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you will be able to easily write your own microservice which consumes the MQTT messages using the [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client), 
translates them to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} format using mapping you provide, and then uses the [Microservice SDK](/microservice-sdk/java) to push them into {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
```

> consumes the MQTT messages, translates them to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} format and stores them using [Microservice SDK](/microservice-sdk/java).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
translates them to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} format using mapping you provide, and then uses the [Microservice SDK](/microservice-sdk/java) to push them into {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
```

Reviewer 2: These 2 suggestions are part of one 2 line suggestion. I thought the original sentence made it sound like the MQTT client SDK would do the mapping/formatting for them, so wanted to make it clear that they have to provide that

> Same solution can be also applied when trying to communicate with device. Knowing the MQTT client id and the topic,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same solution can be also applied when trying to communicate with device. Knowing the MQTT client id and the topic,
```

> microservice can push any MQTT message to the device via [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a microservice can push any MQTT message to a device via [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client).
```

Reviewer 2: suggestion: Should the description of sending and receiving be next to the diagram for each?
Either receive-text, receive-diagram, sent-text, send-diagram, or alternatively receive-diagram, receive-text, send-diagram, sent-text.

Reviewer 2: The suggestion was to interleave the text descriptions between the diagrams, so each bit of text is next to the diagram(s) it relates to.

Something like:
Sending diagram
Sending text
Receiving diagram
Receiving text

We currently have: 
Sending diagram
Receiving diagram
Sending text
Receiving text

---
weight: 10
layout: redirect
title: Overview
---

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

{{< c8y-admon-preview >}}
The feature is in preview mode, that is, it is not enabled by default and may be subject to change.
{{< /c8y-admon-preview >}}

```

Author: @rssag we have the follow-up story for this https://cumulocity.atlassian.net/browse/MTM-56141
I would like to close this PR and do this in scope of MTM-56141

Reviewer 3: oh, sure!

MQTT Connect is the new MQTT endpoint implementation of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} which provides the following benefits:

> * Supports publishing and subscribing arbitrary payloads on any MQTT topic. The existing topics that are defined by {{< product-c8y-iot >}} are restricted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Supports publishing and subscribing arbitrary payloads on any MQTT topic. The topics that are used by the exisging {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT implementation are not permitted for use with MQTT Connect.
```

> * Supports publishing and subscribing arbitrary payloads on any MQTT topic. The existing topics that are defined by {{< product-c8y-iot >}} are restricted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Supports publishing and subscribing arbitrary payloads on any MQTT topic. The topics that are used by the existing {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT implementation are not permitted for use with MQTT Connect.
```

Reviewer 2: I just wanted to clarify that they are only restricted in MQTT Connect (not restricted to existing clients and endpoints)

> * Supports publishing and subscribing arbitrary payloads on any MQTT topic. The topics that are used by the existing {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT implementation are not permitted for use with MQTT Connect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support for publishing and subscribing arbitrary payloads on any MQTT topic. The topics that are used by the existing {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT implementation are not permitted for use with MQTT Connect.
```

* Support for subscribing to the data stream from MQTT Connect and mapping it to {{< product-c8y-iot >}} compatible one or routing them to a different service.
* Multi-tenancy support: A single endpoint serves multiple tenants.
* Full horizontal scalability.

This section does not describe the basics of MQTT communication. If you are unfamiliar with MQTT, we recommend 

> you to consult one of the numerous introductions in the Internet. Some references can be found on the [MQTT website](https://mqtt.org/mqtt-specification/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
you to consult one of the numerous introductions on the internet. Some references can be found on the [MQTT website](https://mqtt.org/mqtt-specification/).
```

Reviewer 2: ... just Googled this. Apparently attitudes have changed. There are no longer (many) internets - they're intranets. 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitalization_of_Internet

> ### Requirements {#mqtt-connect-requirements}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Requirements {#requirements}
```
should work, and makes this easier to use, as it matches the default ID

Author: Thanks, I wasn't really sure if has to be global unique.

MQTT Connect is in final stages of development now, available as a private preview only. Please reach out to [product support](/additional-resources/contacting-support/) if interested.

> ### Architecture {#mqtt-connect-architecture}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Architecture {#architecture}
```

### Architecture {#mqtt-connect-architecture}

> MQTT Connect works together with the Messaging Service to provide as generic a solution as possible.

Reviewer 2: I was almost tempted to say things link 'any and many' and even 'hot deployment' - that's what the subscriber based message processors offer.

then to the microservice where it is converted to the final {{< product-c8y-iot >}} REST request.

> ![MQTT Connect Send](/images/mqtt-connect/mqtt-connect-send.svg)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![MQTT Connect send](/images/mqtt-connect/mqtt-connect-send.svg)
```

> All MQTT messages coming to MQTT Connect are forwarded to the Messaging Service, where they are persisted and waiting to be consumed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All MQTT messages coming to MQTT Connect are forwarded to the Messaging Service, where they are persisted, waiting to be consumed.
```

Reviewer 2: suggestion: I'd prefer _either_ the above suggestion, '...persisted, waiting to be consumed' or '... persisted and wait to be consumed'.

> All MQTT messages coming to the MQTT Connect are forwarded to the Messaging Service, where they are persisted and waiting to be consumed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All MQTT messages coming to MQTT Connect are forwarded to the Messaging Service, where they are persisted and waiting to be consumed.
```

> A custom microservice that understands the topic and payload structure can, with the help of [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client),    

Reviewer 2: There are about 4 blank spaces after JavaClient link. This (anymore than one blank space) causes a newline that is out of place here.
```suggestion
A custom microservice that understands the topic and payload structure can, with the help of [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client), 
```

![MQTT Connect Push](/images/mqtt-connect/mqtt-connect-push.svg)

All MQTT messages coming to the MQTT Connect are forwarded to the Messaging Service, where they are persisted and waiting to be consumed.

> Knowing the topic and payload structure custom microservice can we used as a consumer which with the help of [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client),  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A custom microservice that understands the topic and payload structure can, with the help of [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client),  
```

Reviewer 2: Don't like the use of the word 'Knowing' here

Author: Changes applied.

> consumes the MQTT messages, translates them to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} format, and then uses the [Microservice SDK](/microservice-sdk/java) to push them into {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
consume the MQTT messages, translate them to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} format, and then use the [Microservice SDK](/microservice-sdk/java) to push them into {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
```

Author: Done

> ![MQTT Connect Push](/images/mqtt-connect/mqtt-connect-push.svg)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![MQTT Connect push](/images/mqtt-connect/mqtt-connect-push.svg)
```

> The same solution can be also applied when trying to communicate with device. Knowing the MQTT client id and the topic,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same solution can be also applied when trying to communicate with device. Given the MQTT client id and the topic,
```

> Like with the message coming from the device same solution can be also applied when trying to communicate with the device.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Like with the message coming from the device the same solution can be also applied when trying to communicate with the device.
```

> Given the MQTT client id and the topic, a microservice can push any MQTT message to a device via [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Given the MQTT client ID and the topic, a microservice can push any MQTT message to a device via [Java Client](/device-integration/mqtt-connect#java-client).
```

> ### MQTT Connect vs {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT {#mqtt-vs-mqtt-connect}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### MQTT Connect vs {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT {#mqtt-connect-vs-cumulocity-iot-mqtt}
```
@BeateRixen i'm not sure i remember the details of shortcodes within headings correctly, at least what we last came up with when we updated the IDs. is this correct?

### MQTT Connect vs {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT {#mqtt-vs-mqtt-connect}

> The table below presents a basic comparison between the standard {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT functionality and that of MQTT Connect.

Reviewer 2: Can (and should) we add that MQTT Connect allows 
 - multiple processors for a topic
 - potentially hot-deployment of new processors (or upgrade of existing), for example, by adding it updating a microservice 
 
This a big (architectural) differences between MQTT Connect and existing MQTT (I'm not sure we've picked up on this in team yet)

Author: Added one row with `Message processors/consumers` as this is also partially covered by `Extensibility`

|                              | {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT                            | MQTT Connect                                                                      |
|:-----------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| QoS                          | 0, 1, 2                                                 | 0, 1                                                                              |

> | Clean session                | Start with clean session is recommended                 | Start with clean session is recommended                                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Clean session                | Starting with clean session is recommended                 | Starting with clean session is recommended                                           |
```
